History from en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandwich
The modern concept of a sandwich using slices of bread as found within the
West can arguably be traced to 18th-century Europe. However, the use of some
kind of bread or bread-like substance to lie under (or under and over) 
some other food, or used to scoop up and enclose or wrap some other type of
food, long predates the eighteenth century, and is found in numerous much 
older cultures worldwide.

The ancient Jewish sage Hillel the Elder is said to have wrapped meat from 
the Paschal lamb and bitter herbs in a soft matzah during Passover in the 
manner of a modern wrap made with flatbread. Flat breads of only slightly 
varying kinds have long been used to scoop or wrap small amounts of food en
route from platter to mouth throughout Western Asia and northern Africa. 
From Morocco to Ethiopia to India, bread is baked in flat rounds, 
contrasting with the European loaf tradition.

During the Middle Ages in Europe, thick slabs of coarse and usually stale 
bread, called "trenchers", were used as plates. After a meal, the 
food-soaked trencher was fed to a dog or to beggars at the tables of the 
wealthy, and eaten by diners in more modest circumstances. The immediate 
culinary precursor with a direct connection to the English sandwich was to 
be found in the Netherlands of the seventeenth century, where the naturalist 
John Ray observed that in the taverns beef hung from the rafters "which 
they cut into thin slices and eat with bread and butter laying the slices 
upon the butter" explanatory specifications that reveal the Dutch belegde
broodje, open-faced sandwich, was as yet unfamiliar in England.

Initially perceived as food that men shared while gaming and drinking at 
night, the sandwich slowly began appearing in polite society as a late-night
meal among the aristocracy. The sandwich's popularity in Spain and England
increased dramatically during the nineteenth century, when the rise of 
industrial society and the working classes made fast, portable, and 
inexpensive meals essential. In London, for example, at least seventy
street vendors were selling ham sandwiches by 1850; during that decade 
sandwich bars also became an important form of eating establishment in 
western Holland, typically serving liver and salt beef sandwiches.

In the United States, the sandwich was first promoted as an elaborate 
meal at supper. By the early twentieth century, as bread became a staple
of the American diet, the sandwich became the same kind of popular, 
quick meal as was already widespread in the Mediterranean.
